What is HTTP?

HTTP stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol. It is the foundation of the World Wide Web and is used by browsers to load web pages.

A typical example is when your browser sends an HTTP request to a web server after entering an URL. The HTTP command then provides
 an HTTP response to the web server with the webpage’s contents.

What is HTTP 1.1?

Officially standardized in 1999, HTTP 1.1 is the most recent version of HTTP. Just like its predecessor, this application protocol 
transfers data between web servers and clients. However, what makes it different is the incorporation of PUT, DELETE, and OPTIONS, 
and it includes features like HTTP pipelining and the chunked transfer encoding. Due to all these features, HTTP 1.1 provides better
 performance and more flexibility than HTTP 1.


What is HTTP 2?

HTTP 2 is the second major version of the HTTP network protocol used for transmitting data over the Internet. It was developed to improve
 the performance and efficiency of web applications by reducing the amount of data sent over the wire. This reduces the number of round trips
  required to load a webpage and allows for a more efficient application of resources.


These are some of the parameters based on which we will compare both the HTTP versions.

Development
	HTTP1.1 It was developed in the year 1997	
    HTTP2.It was developed in the year 2015.

Compression
	HTTP1.1 It compresses data by itself.	
    HTTP2 It uses HPACK for data compression.
Binary Protocol
	HTTP1.1 A text-based protocol uses plain text to encode and transmit data.	
    HTTP2 It works on the binary protocol as a series of binary codes encode and transmit data rather than plain text.
Security	
    HTTP1.1 The client sends a request to a server, and the server sends a response back to the client.	
    HTTP2 A different underlying protocol called Secure Remote Protocol 2 (SRP2) establishes a secure connection between a client and a server.
Multiplexing	
    HTTP1.1 A separate connection is established for each request and response, which can add overhead and latency to the communication process.
    HTTP2	It allows multiplexing so multiple requests and responses can be sent over a single connection.
Buffer Overflow	
    HTTP 1.1 cannot handle buffer overflow vulnerabilities due to the lack of sufficient measures.
    HTTP 2 includes measures to prevent buffer overflow vulnerabilities.
Performance
	HTTP 1.1 does not include any in-built features, so the performance it delivers is less efficient.
    HTTP 2 is designed to be more efficient and performant than HTTP 1.1. This is because HTTP 2 includes several features like multiplexing,
           binary protocol and header compression.
